---
layout: announcement
title:  "Welcome to PHIL 130: Sex, Gender, and Love!"
---

Dear class,

I hope you’ve all been taking care of yourselves and loved ones, and are excited about the new semester! Apologies for intruding into the last few weeks of your summer—I have some travel plans before class gets rolling again, and I thought I’d rather write early than late to welcome you to Phil 130: Sex, Gender, and Love. I look forward to meeting you on our first day of class!

My name is Ding (my pronouns are they/them and she/her). I specialize in trans/feminist theory, with a focus on the politics, law, and philosophy of gender. As you can imagine, it’s very exciting to be teaching a class that aligns so well with my own research interests, and I hope it will end up becoming one of your favorites too.

For this class, we will use the university’s [D2L](https://d2l.arizona.edu/d2l/home/1453095) system for assignments and then a separate, hopefully-easier-to-use [course website](https://130.dingthemself.com/) for all the course materials—syllabus, schedule, readings, handouts, etc.

Please be sure to review the syllabus and schedule before the semester begins. **There is a short reading assigned for our first class**; check out the schedule to find out what it is. There are also three books that you’ll need to acquire, which I explain in more detail in the syllabus.

I expect most students taking this class to be new to both philosophy and feminist theory. Unlike other courses in the humanities, we are not going to read as many pages a week; instead, you might find the texts a lot denser than you are used to. I strongly encourage you to take the time to read the assigned texts carefully and critically in advance of each class, participate in class discussions actively and regularly, and come to office hours to talk through stuff that you find puzzling. Last but not least, I hope that you will have fun, be challenged, build community, engage with the world around you, and think critically *for* yourself.

<script language="JavaScript" type="text/javascript">
      var g = "edu";
      var o = "arizona";
      var c = ".";
      var a = "din";
      var t = " ";
      var s = "@";
      document.write("<p>If you have any questions, please don’t be shy to get in touch! Email is the best way to get hold of me:" + t + "<a href='" + "mail" + "to:" + a + s + o + c + g + "'>" + a + s + o + c + g + "</a>" + t + "(yes, it’s “din” without the “-g”). I try to get back to students within a couple of hours, but it may take me longer in the morning (I’m a night owl), on the weekend, or while I’m traveling. If you don’t hear back from me for longer than a day or two, it most likely got lost somewhere; please just email me again.</p>");
</script>
<noscript><p>If you have any questions, please don’t be shy to get in touch! Email is the best way to get hold of me: [you must enable JavaScript in your web browser to view the email address] (yes, it’s “din” without the “-g”). I try to get back to students within a couple of hours, but it may take me longer in the morning (I’m a night owl), on the weekend, or while I’m traveling. If you don’t hear back from me for longer than a day or two, feel free to send me a quick reminder/follow-up.</p></noscript>

I hope you will enjoy this class, and I look forward to getting to know every one of you over the course of the semester!

All the best,\
Ding