---
layout: announcement
title:  "Welcome to PHIL 130: Sex, Gender, and Love!"
---

Dear class,

I hope you’ve all been taking care of yourselves and loved ones, and are excited about the new semester. I’m going to be traveling out of the country for a conference and may have unreliable email access, so I’m writing early to welcome you to Sex, Gender, and Love: An Introduction to Social Philosophy—I look forward to meeting you on our first day of class, August 27!

My name is Ding (my pronouns are they/them and she/her). I specialize in trans/feminist theory, with a focus on the politics, law, and philosophy of gender. As you can imagine, it’s very exciting to be teaching a class that aligns so well with my own research interests, and I hope it will end up becoming one of your favorites too.

For this class, we will use the university’s [D2L](https://d2l.arizona.edu/d2l/home/1453095) system for assignments and a separate, easier-to-use [course website](https://130.dingthemself.com/) for all the course materials—syllabus, schedule, readings, handouts, etc.

Please be sure to review the course syllabus and schedule before class begins. **There is a short reading assigned for our first class**; check out the schedule to find out what it is. There are also three books that you’ll need to acquire, which I explain in more detail in the syllabus.

I expect most students taking this class will be new to both philosophy and feminist theory. Unlike other courses in the humanities, we are not going to read as many pages a week; instead, the texts we will discuss are dense, complex, and nuanced in terms of ideas and arguments, requiring close and critical reading. I strongly encourage you to stay on top of the readings, participate in class discussions, and come to office hours to talk through passages that you find puzzling—but most importantly, I hope you will have fun, be challenged, build community, engage with the world, and think critically *for* yourself.

<script language="JavaScript" type="text/javascript">
      var g = "edu";
      var o = "arizona";
      var c = ".";
      var a = "din";
      var t = " ";
      var s = "@";
      document.write("<p>If you have any questions, please don’t be shy to get in touch! Email is the best way to get ahold of me:" + t + a + s + o + c + g + t + "(yes, it’s “din” without the “-g”). I try to get back to students within a couple of hours, but it may take me longer on the weekend and in the morning (I’m a night owl). If you don’t hear back from me for longer than a day, it most likely got lost somewhere; please just email me again.</p>");
</script>
<noscript><p>If you have any questions, please don’t be shy to get in touch! Email is the best way to get ahold of me: [you must enable JavaScript in your web browser to view the email address] (yes, it’s “din” without the “-g”). I try to get back to students within a couple of hours, but it may take me longer on the weekend and in the morning (I’m a night owl). If you don’t hear back from me for longer than a day, it most likely got lost somewhere; please just email me again.</p></noscript>

I hope you will enjoy this class, and I look forward to getting to know every one of you over the course of the semester!

All the best,
Ding